docs(v2): Docusaurus 2 beta blog post (#4756)
facebook/docusaurus: website-1.x/blog/2021-05-11-releasing-docusaurus-beta.md

---
title: Releasing Docusaurus 2 beta
author: Sébastien Lorber
authorTitle: Docusaurus maintainer
authorURL: https://sebastienlorber.com
authorImageURL: https://github.com/slorber.png
authorTwitter: sebastienlorber
tags: [release, beta]

> # image: /img/blog/2021-03-09-releasing-docusaurus-i18n/social-card.png

Author: I don't have yet the image so yes :)

---

Today, we officially release the first **Docusaurus 2 beta**, after a **very long alpha period**.

We believe Docusaurus 2 is ready for **mainstream adoption**!

<!--truncate-->

## Docusaurus adoption

**Don't be afraid by the beta tag!**

Docusaurus 2 is **widely adopted** and growing fast:

![Docusaurus growth](/img/blog/2021-05-11-releasing-docusaurus-beta/trend.png)

Our new [showcase](https://docusaurus.io/showcase) page allow to **filter sites by features**: get inspired by production-ready sites!

Don't miss our [favorite](https://docusaurus.io/showcase?tags=favorite) sites, they all **stand out** with something unique:

[![Docusaurus growth](/img/blog/2021-05-11-releasing-docusaurus-beta/favorites.png)](https://docusaurus.io/showcase?tags=favorite)

## Why being in alpha for so long?

The first alpha release [v2.0.0-alpha.0](https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus/releases/tag/v2.0.0-alpha.0) was **2 years ago** 😅.

> It is definitively a very long and unusual alpha period.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It was definitively a very long and unusual alpha period.
```

Docusaurus 2 has reached **feature parity** with Docusaurus 1 with **[i18n](https://docusaurus.io/blog/2021/03/09/releasing-docusaurus-i18n)**, and it has been **successfully adopted** by many Docusaurus sites (see [i18n showcase](https://docusaurus.io/showcase?tags=i18n)).

> We can now confidently say that the **core features** of Docusaurus 2 are **stable enough** to be in beta.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're now confident that the **core features** of Docusaurus 2 are **stable enough** to be in beta.
```

## What does being in beta mean?

We will use the beta phase to **improve our theming system**.

We want to make it:

- **easier to implement a custom theme**, including for ourselves. We want to provide [multiple official themes](https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus/issues/3522) (including [Tailwind](https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus/issues/2961)) for a long time.

> - **safer to extend an existing theme**: it is sometimes painful to upgrade a **highly customized** Docusaurus site, as customizations can **conflict with internal changes**. We need to make the theme public API surface more explicit, and make it clear what is safe to customize.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **safer to extend an existing theme**: it can be painful to upgrade a **highly customized** Docusaurus site, as customizations can **conflict with internal changes**. We need to make the theme public API surface more explicit, and make it clear what is safe to customize.
```

We will build a better **theming infrastructure** and refactor the classic theme to use it.

> If you don't customize much your Docusaurus site, you can consider Docusaurus is stable already.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't customize your Docusaurus site much, you can consider Docusaurus stable enough for your usecase.
```

How do you like something like this?

## What's new?

> In case you missed it, we recently shipped 2 major improvements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case you missed it, we recently shipped two major improvements:
```

---

> title: Releasing Docusaurus 2 beta

Reviewer 2: You would also change the title of this `.md` file to be `2021-05-11-announcing-docusaurus-two-beta.md`

author: Sébastien Lorber
authorTitle: Docusaurus maintainer
authorURL: https://sebastienlorber.com
authorImageURL: https://github.com/slorber.png
authorTwitter: sebastienlorber
tags: [release, beta]
# image: /img/blog/2021-03-09-releasing-docusaurus-i18n/social-card.png
---

Today, we officially release the first **Docusaurus 2 beta**, after a **very long alpha period**.

We believe Docusaurus 2 is ready for **mainstream adoption**!

<!--truncate-->

## Docusaurus adoption

**Don't be afraid of the beta tag!**

Docusaurus 2 is **widely adopted** and growing fast:

![Docusaurus growth](/img/blog/2021-05-11-releasing-docusaurus-beta/trend.png)

> Our new [showcase](https://docusaurus.io/showcase) page allows you to **filter Docusaurus sites by features**: get inspired by real-world production sites with a similar use-case!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get a fuller understanding of the quality of current Docusaurus 2 sites, our new [showcase](https://docusaurus.io/showcase) page allows you to filter Docusaurus sites by features, so you may get inspired by real-world production sites with a similar use-case as yours!
```

Don't miss our [favorite](https://docusaurus.io/showcase?tags=favorite) sites, they all **stand out** with something unique:

[![Docusaurus growth](/img/blog/2021-05-11-releasing-docusaurus-beta/favorites.png)](https://docusaurus.io/showcase?tags=favorite)

## Why was Docusaurus v2 in alpha for so long?

The first alpha release [v2.0.0-alpha.0](https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus/releases/tag/v2.0.0-alpha.0) was **2 years ago** 😅.

> It was definitively a very long and unusual alpha period.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: You can delete this sentence now given what I suggested above.

> Docusaurus 2 has reached **feature parity** with Docusaurus 1 with **[i18n](https://docusaurus.io/blog/2021/03/09/releasing-docusaurus-i18n)**, and it has been **successfully adopted** by many Docusaurus sites (see [i18n showcase](https://docusaurus.io/showcase?tags=i18n)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As this was a substantial re-architecture of the code base, we wanted to ensure that we had confidence in the stability and features of Docusaurus 2 before moving on to a beta stage, since beta suggests a high level of quality. We are happy to say that Docusaurus 2 has reached **feature parity** with Docusaurus 1 with **[i18n](https://docusaurus.io/blog/2021/03/09/releasing-docusaurus-i18n)**, and it has been **successfully adopted** by many Docusaurus sites (see [i18n showcase](https://docusaurus.io/showcase?tags=i18n)).
```

> We're now confident that the **core features** of Docusaurus 2 are **stable enough** to be in beta.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We're now quite confident that the core features of Docusaurus 2 are stable enough to be in beta.
```

## What are the goals of the beta?

> We will use the beta phase to **improve our theming system**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that Docusaurus 2 is stable and major feature complete, the goal of the beta is to inspire confidence in new users on the production-readiness of Docusaurus 2, migrate more remaining Docusaurus 1 users to version 2, and officially deprecate Docusaurus 1. We will, of course, continue to resolve any issues and bugs that may be discovered. 

In addition, we will use the beta phase to **improve our theming system**.
```

We want to make it:

- **easier to implement a custom theme**, including for ourselves. We want to provide [multiple official themes](https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus/issues/3522) (including [Tailwind CSS](https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus/issues/2961)) for a long time.

- **safer to extend an existing theme**: it can be painful to upgrade a **highly customized** Docusaurus site, as customizations can **conflict with internal changes**. We need to make the theme public API surface more explicit, and make it clear what is safe to customize.

We will build a better **theming infrastructure** and refactor the classic theme to use it.

If you don't customize your Docusaurus site much, you can consider Docusaurus stable.

## What's new?

In case you missed it, we recently shipped two major improvements:

- [Auto-generated sidebars](https://docusaurus.io/docs/sidebar#sidebar-item-autogenerated): no need to maintain a `sidebars.js` file anymore!
- [Webpack 5 / PostCSS 8](https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus/issues/4027): persistent caching significantly speeds up **rebuild time**!

## What's next?

> We will continue to **fix bugs** and implement the **most wanted features**, some of them are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Shipping the official 2.0 release! 

To get to 2.0 RTM, we will continue to **fix bugs** and implement the **most wanted features**, including:
```

Reviewer: I have no idea what `2.0 RTM` stands for, so please either: expand the abbreviation in full, or use write something like `To get to the official 2.0 release of Docusaurus, we will...`

Author: also not familiar with RTM, had to google it with  "RTM + software" to find what this is. More familiar with "GA" but I don't think many users will understand either

- [Sidebar category index pages](https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus/issues/2643)
- [Proper CSS-in-JS support](https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus/issues/3236)
- [Extend Docusaurus plugins, CMS integration](https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus/issues/4138)
- [Fix trailing slashes and relative link issues](https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus/issues/3372)
- [Better compatibility with CommonMark](https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus/issues/3018)
- [Upgrade to MDX 2.0](https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus/issues/4029)

## Conclusion

This is an **exciting time for Docusaurus**.

> We read a lot of **positive feedbacks** about Docusaurus, and discover **new sites online** every single day.

Reviewer 2: Is there any link we can point to for the positive feedback to give folks an example?

> We read a lot of **positive feedbacks** about Docusaurus, and discover **new sites online** every single day.

Author: Will look at creating a "twitter collection" through TweetDeck and add a link to positive feedbacks.

Later we could probably create a testimonial page with embedded tweet feedbacks based on this collection, will try to keep it up to date

> We hope that removing the **alpha label** will be reassuring for the community, and **increase adoption** even more.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are so excited for this release, and hope that by moving from alpha to beta the community is assured on quality and stability, which, in turn, continues to increase the adoption of Docusaurus. And, for those that have been on the fence from migrating an existing site to Docusaurus 2, it is a great time to upgrade so that you are running on the latest infrastructure when we deprecate Docusaurus 1 at the end of this beta period.
```

> **Docusaurus 1 will be deprecated** at the end of the beta phase: it is a good time to schedule an **upgrade to Docusaurus 2**!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> Thanks for reading.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Thank you to everyone for reading and to the entire community who supports Docusaurus. 🤗
```
